Fuck.

Where even to begin. I suppose I'll begin at the beginning, at
least the beginning of us. I went to a server-side JavaScript
meetup in 2009, when Node was just a newcomer in the SSJS space,
one of many upstart projects.

I was giving a talk on JSGI, and how it might be a standard that
server-side JavaScript platforms could coalesce around. But
really, I was already of the opinion that Node was really The
Thing.

Some guy I'd never met heckled me, saying we should skip all that
JSGI portability noise and just work on Node exclusively. He
wasn't wrong, in fact that was the point I sort of secretly was
trying to guide the community towards, so it put me in a weird
position of agreeing with my harasser.

Afterwards, he said, "Yeah, you're isaacs. I know you from the
node irc. I'm Mikeal, spelled funny." That's when I learned how
to pronounce your name.

Some time later, you invited me to Oakland for lunch at the
Couch.IO offices. I had taken a sabbatical to work on npm, and
was trying to figure out how best to create a registry for it.
You threw together a proof of concept that is still (despite all
of our better judgement) the de facto standard for the interface
defining how JavaScript packages are published and consumed.

That visit is what convinced me that I ought to move from
Mountain View to Oakland, the city that has become my first
permanent adult home. I haven't left since.

In all this time, from those very first interactions, up until
now, you've been one of my best and favorite friends. A
recounting of all of the best memories would just be a history of
each stage of life over the last 15 years. We've biked all over
this town drinking coffee and writing code. We've shared meals,
we've discussed life and philosophy and spirituality over whiskey
and then when we got older, soberly while our kids played. We've
changed the tech world together, multiple times. We've been to
conferences together and traveled the world. We made sourdough
bread a meme within JavaScript, long before it became associated
with covid lockdowns.

I love deeply, but I don't make friends easily. Chalk it up to
the autism, I guess. I've always had unshakable respect for you.
You are one of the only people whose opinion I've always cared
about, one of the brilliant few who I've looked up to and wanted
to impress.

On November 9, we went to the park so our kids could play
together.

When I asked if it was ok if I invited Emily, you said sure, but
you asked me to come early. You said "I just need to have a
conversation with someone who isn't my family."

I completely understood. And also, I must admit, I was flattered
beyond words to have been the person you reached out to. I am
always utterly blown away at how much you seem to value me, in
your way of just casually treating it as obvious that I'm
important to you.

You told me about some difficulties you'd been having. I said I'd
ask if my therapist was taking on new clients, because I thought
he'd be a good fit.

Emily arrived, and she brought Max, who did some toddler parallel
play with Kai. Juniper and Kora ran around inventing games
together, as kids their age do. You ordered a pizza from Round
Table, and I went and picked it up.

You left early because you weren't feeling well. Later you said,
"I don't think that pizza agreed with me."

I don't think it was the pizza at all. I think it was the cancer.

We made plans to get breakfast on Thursday the next week. On
Tuesday, you texted me, "I’m not gonna make it, I’ve got cancer
that has spread to multiple organs."

(I clarified that "not gonna make it" was referring to our
breakfast plans, not like, life. But also... hm.)

I'm trying real hard to stick to the assignment here, make this
about memories instead of grief or my own feelings. But for
fucks' sake, how is that even possible? I will miss you more than
anyone can imagine. You are my closest friend, and losing you
feels so deeply unfair. I know I'm nowhere near the front of that
line, not that it's a competition, but like, Kora's losing a dad,
Anna a husband, etc.

But that doesn't change anything. A greater loss never made
another loss lesser. To the extent that anyone has known you,
they love you, and you and I have known each other well.
